All right.
Another day, another
project that we have to do.
So this time the project is going
little bit complex and as you will
move forward the project are going
to be little bit more complex.
Nothing much, nothing
to be worried on.
So the next project that
we have is this one.
We have a T stall which
offers different prices
for different cup sizes.
Very valid.
Write a program that calculates
the price based on the size.
And I want your attention fully
on the problem statement.
So I'll remove myself from the screen
so that you get full attention
on the screen itself, nothing else.
So try to analyze this program.
No need to hurry up.
Try to pause and even see that
how you will approach this program,
at least, at least some
part of the task, you can
actually go ahead and do this.
So write a program that
calculates the price.
So the first step is input
small, medium or large.
That simply says that user is trying
to give me an input based on small,
medium or large as a price size.
And we have done this
in the past as well.
This is not anything new to us.
Then we have to evaluate
for the three conditions.
This time it can be a small, it can
be a medium, or it can be a large.
But the difference is this time
we have to take different decision
based on what's happening.
Previously we were just checking for
the OR condition cookies or samosa.
This time we are actually
taking different steps or we
are taking different measures
based on different
condition that we are checking.
So we have to be little bit
more thorough this time.
And if we don't see any
of the cup size between small,
medium and large, we simply
say is unknown cup size.
So let's take down this problem
and try to build this
small chai price calculator.
Let's go ahead and close this
and create the new one.
And this one is chai
price calculator.
PY of course.
So the step one should be very
clear and I think everybody
should be able to do this.
This is input.
We have done this in the past.
You simply go ahead and put
up a message
which says something like this.
Choose your cup size.
And we also will give some message
to the user, an indication that
you can only choose from small
or you can choose from medium,
or you can choose from large.
And whatever the user says, we'll
just go ahead and add a dot lower.
We have already seen this is a good
practice that we can apply and we
have to store this into a variable.
Let's call this one as simply cup
or user input cup, whatever you
want to call now don't worry.
Automatically this my
co data actually wrap the lines.
If they don't fit in the same
line, it automatically
moves into the next line.
But again, nothing to worry.
It's still on the same line.
No indentation is going on.
Okay, once this is done,
now we have to evaluate.
For evaluation we simply can say
if the cup is equals to
the variable small or the checking
that we are doing for is small
and we pretty much know what to do.
We have seen this part so far, so
this shouldn't be a problem anymore.
And we're going to go ahead and say
that Your price is 10, rupees.
All right, this is all good.
We have seen this.
So this is 10 rupees.
Or we can use the rupee
symbol as well.
But this is all okay.
Now we have to check
for another condition.
So so far we have seen that
in the very first problem
statement we have if and else.
But what about this case when we
have to check for three condition or
probably more, we have
another keyword that we are going
to study instead of the else.
Just rewrite that.
We have another one which
is elif, also known as lf.
No other way.
We simply can check for cup now
and again put another condition that
I want to check the cup for medium.
Now if the cup is of size medium,
I can go ahead and do another print
statement, something like this.
And I can say price is medium.
How much is the price for medium?
15 and 20 rupees.
15 rupees.
Rupees.
There we go.
We also have to check another one.
So no worries.
We can again use the same
lf and we can put up a check
for the condition.
And there we go.
We simply go ahead
and check for large.
We all have to check for
the lowercase large because
we are converting our input
into the all lowercase.
And in this part we'll just go ahead
and say print and we will say price.
Oops.
In the quotes I have to say
price is 20 rupees.
20 rupees.
For rest of the all things.
This is our conditional part.
So this is our part two where we
check for all the condition.
If invalid show cup unknown cup size.
So for rest of all the things, I
don't want to check anything when
you don't want to check anything
else is again your best friend.
So we simply go ahead and say
print and we are going
to say unknown cup size.
So I hope now you understand that
why I didn't want it to teach you
about just the conditionals and
just the keywords, because these
kinds of real world
implementation, you only and only
learn when you actually solve
these kinds of problems.
Again, we have studied that.
What's the importance of converting
everything, what we are taking from
the user into a single case, whether
that's an upper case or lowercase.
And what's really important
that we go through
with these cycles of this.
This is really boring of a,
learning process if you just go
ahead and learn the syntax.
But this time we are actually taking
down a problem for a real cafe.
Yeah, it is very real.
I know this.
So I hope you have enjoyed this.
Don't forget to rate us and hope you
are enjoying the entire content.
If yes, do tweet as well.
We would love to enjoy
to see your progress as well.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next video.